The Scriptures do not say specifically
that the devil fathered any of the Nephilim.
But Jesus' words, at John 8.44,
reveal the fact that the devil does indeed have children
figuratively speaking.
He can't create humans,
but he can influence people
to reflect his characteristics.
And that is what makes them his children.
Turn with me to John 8.44.
We'll read the entire text.
Jesus' words, knowing that
the religious leaders were out to kill him,
Jesus' words points out who their father is.
John 8.44, Jesus said,
you are from your father, the devil,
and you wish to do the desires of your father.
That one was a murderer when he began,
and he did not stand fast in the truth,
because truth is not in him.
When he speaks the lie,
he speaks according to his own disposition,
because he is a liar
and the father of the lie.
According to the text, at one time,
he was in the truth.
But he had free will,
and he toyed with wrong thinking,
to such a degree that it eroded
anything that was good
and nothing good was left within him,
and he made himself
into the father of the lie,
Satan the devil.
Now, if we had Jesus' words with what John wrote,
at 1 John 3 verse 10,
we can identify specific characteristics
of the children of the devil
and the children of Jehovah God.
Let's read that together.
1 John 3 verse 10.
It states, the children of God
and the children of the devil
are evident by this fact.
Whoever does not practice righteousness
does not originate with God,
nor does the one who does not love his brother.
We must practice righteousness,
but it's not self-righteousness.
We don't establish what is righteous for ourselves.
It's Jehovah's righteousness.
Isn't that what Jesus said in Matthew 6.33?
Keep on seeking the kingdom
and his righteousness.
The standards that Jehovah God has set for us.
That is what righteousness is.
And one of the points about being righteous
and serving God is that we are no part of the world.
And what's interesting about that idea
is that there are many people in the world
who think they are righteous.
They set their own standards.
There are people who believe
they're practicing righteousness
as they set about to bring about social justice
or remove injustices in the political,
the commercial, the economics of this world.
They want to see justice for all.
No more racial inequality
and so many other items they follow through on
to remove from this world scene today.
And they feel that they truly are being righteous.
When it appears, though, that one injustice is removed
and it only appears that way in many cases,
isn't there always another one that comes up?
Aren't there a multitude of injustices in this world?
It makes me think about a long-time faithful servant of Jehovah
who was approached by a group of men
who criticized Jehovah's Witnesses
because we don't get involved in working against
the social injustices of this world.
Our brother who was known for being straightforward
and outspoken said that what these men were doing
in their fight against injustices in the world,
they were battling against spider webs.
Injustices were like spider webs
and they would fight in battle
and they would demonstrate to bring down a spider web
but another spider web was being woven, being spun
or maybe the same one in many cases just come up again
and it just continues on and on that way
and then he looked at the men and he said,
but we are going to get the spider Satan the Devil,
you're after the webs, what he produces,
you've got to go to the source
and see that the spider is eliminated
and it's Jesus Christ who's going to abyss
Satan the Devil, the spider who's spinning all of these things
to distract people from the real issue about God's kingdom
and serving Jehovah wholeheartedly.
That spider will be thrown into the abyss.
No more spider webs.
Truly, the devil's lie to Eve
about becoming like God, knowing good and evil
has had far-reaching consequences that affect people
more than ever right down to this day.
We see it.
The world's attitude.
They're independent.
You don't need God.
We don't need to be guided by scriptural principles
what the Bible says.
You decide for yourself how you want to live.
There are no moral standards.
You fix your own standards.
Isn't that precisely what Satan told Eve?
You can be like God.
You decide what's good, what's bad,
what's right for you and not right.
And if you're so sophisticated and so wise
we can fix our problems.
Oh, really?
We look at the world scene today.
Are they really fixing the problems?
What do we really see happening?
It's out of control.
The entire world scene is out of control.
The world in its wisdom prefers the lie
even though they don't recognize the liar.
They still prefer the lie instead of recognizing their need
for Jehovah God.
And the outcome for the world is stated for us
at Jeremiah chapter 8 verse 9.
The wise have been put to shame.
They have become terrified and they will be caught.
Look, they have rejected the word of Jehovah
and what wisdom do they have?
But you know, you might ask the question, why?
Why are people so determined to go their own way?
What's wrong with their thinking?
There are various reasons, but there is one that truly stands out
and the Apostle Paul spoke about it at 2nd Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 10.
And this is what Paul said in part.
He tells us that people will perish
because they did not accept the love of the truth
in order that they might be saved.
Yes, the love of the truth.
People really don't love truth.
They want to make up their own truths, which are lies.
They're not truths.
We must accept the love of the truth.
And it's really quite wonderful that Jehovah has made the truth
in such a way that it appeals to our heart
as will as to our head.
Think about the time when Jesus taught the truth
to his disciples who were walking on their way to Emmaus.
Remember how they responded?
It's at Luke 24, 32.
They said, we're not our hearts burning
as he was speaking to us on the road
as he was fully opening up the scriptures to us.
And I found a very interesting comment
in the watchtower on this verse.
It's the watchtower of 1962, April 15, page 227.
This is what it said.
Only when we have real love for the truth
will we go through the experience of burning hearts.
Isn't that fascinating?
Think about when your heart has burned,
when you've observed a drama,
when you heard an encouraging talk,
when you sang a wonderful kingdom song.
Think about the Hezekiah drama
when we saw the angel spread his wings
facing the Assyrian troops
and then devastation came.
Didn't your heart burn?
Or we think about when armed troops were stealthily advancing
on our brothers in an open field.
And then in the opened up heavens,
we see Jesus on a white horse with bow in hand,
ready to take vengeance on those who hate Jehovah.
That's a reality foretold in scripture.
That fires the heart.
And there are other things that fire our heart.
When we hear beautiful songs that are meaningful,
such as, never alone,
or give me courage and many others,
the heart that loves Jehovah does indeed burn.
And this is not just emotion.
Our thinking ability and our emotions work together
and motivate us to know and to feel the power of the truth.
As the watchtower I quoted from declares,
our life depends on whether we have love for the truth.
So love Jehovah, love our neighbor.
And yes, we must love the truth.